---
layout: default
title: "Feasible Cellular Frequency Assignment Using Constraint Programming Abstractions"
---


1996


Joachim P. Walser



[Postscript](http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/PapersOz/ProgrammingSysLab/fa96.ps.gz)

[BibTeX Entry](http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/PapersOz/abstracts/fa96.bib)



  The contribution of this paper is twofold.  We present a new method
  for feasible cellular frequency assignment, a hard combinatorial
  optimization problem from telecommunications.  Frequency assignment
  problems arise when a cellular radio network has to be established.
  Given a number of base stations, the goal is to assign each a number
  of frequencies, subject to given interference restrictions.  
  We develop a transformation technique that allows for approximate
  optimization of multiple criteria: First, the original problem is
  transformed, thereby reducing the allowed number of distinct
  frequencies. In a second stage, the frequency span is compressed.
  Both stages exploit the cell-structure of the problem formulation.
  Preliminary experiments on randomized problems examine the
  effectiveness of the approach with respect to both criteria.

  As we proceed in solving the subproblems that arise, we identify
  certain key programming abstractions (such as constraints,
  propagation and search). We argue that if these abstractions are
  supported by a programming language, they can greatly speed up the
  search for an efficient algorithm. We exemplify certain aspects of
  the modelling in Oz, a higher-order concurrent constraint
  language.




Proceedings of the Workshop on Constraint Programming Applications, in
  conjunction with the Second International Conference on Principles and
  Practice of Constraint Programming (CP96), Aug 1996




